@docImport 'package:flutter/material.dart'; @docImport 'package:flutter/rendering.dart';

@docImport 'box_border.dart'; @docImport 'box_decoration.dart';

# Decoration

```dart
abstract class Decoration with Diagnosticable {}
```

A description of a box decoration (a decoration applied to a [Rect]).

This class presents the abstract interface for all decorations. See [BoxDecoration] for a concrete example.

To actually paint a [Decoration], use the [createBoxPainter] method to obtain a [BoxPainter]. [Decoration] objects can be shared between boxes; [BoxPainter] objects can cache resources to make painting on a particular surface faster.

### Decoration()

```dart
Decoration()
```

Abstract const constructor. This constructor enables subclasses to provide const constructors so that they can be used in const expressions.

### toStringShort()

```dart
String toStringShort()
```

### debugAssertIsValid()

```dart
bool debugAssertIsValid()
```

In debug mode, throws an exception if the object is not in a valid configuration. Otherwise, returns true.

This is intended to be used as follows:

```dart
assert(myDecoration.debugAssertIsValid());
```

### padding

```dart
EdgeInsetsGeometry get padding
```

Returns the insets to apply when using this decoration on a box that has contents, so that the contents do not overlap the edges of the decoration. For example, if the decoration draws a frame around its edge, the padding would return the distance by which to inset the children so as to not overlap the frame.

This only works for decorations that have absolute sizes. If the padding needed would change based on the size at which the decoration is drawn, then this will return incorrect padding values.

For example, when a [BoxDecoration] has [BoxShape.circle], the padding does not take into account that the circle is drawn in the center of the box regardless of the ratio of the box; it does not provide the extra padding that is implied by changing the ratio.

The value returned by this getter must be resolved (using [EdgeInsetsGeometry.resolve] to obtain an absolute [EdgeInsets]. (For example, [BorderDirectional] will return an [EdgeInsetsDirectional] for its [padding].)

### isComplex

```dart
bool get isComplex
```

Whether this decoration is complex enough to benefit from caching its painting.

### lerpFrom()

```dart
Decoration? lerpFrom(Decoration? a, double t)
```

Linearly interpolates from another [Decoration] (which may be of a different class) to `this`.

When implementing this method in subclasses, return null if this class cannot interpolate from `a`. In that case, [lerp] will try `a`'s [lerpTo] method instead. Classes should implement both [lerpFrom] and [lerpTo].

Supporting interpolating from null is recommended as the [Decoration.lerp] method uses this as a fallback when two classes can't interpolate between each other.

The `t` argument represents position on the timeline, with 0.0 meaning that the interpolation has not started, returning `a` (or something equivalent to `a`), 1.0 meaning that the interpolation has finished, returning `this` (or something equivalent to `this`), and values in between meaning that the interpolation is at the relevant point on the timeline between `a` and `this`. The interpolation can be extrapolated beyond 0.0 and 1.0, so negative values and values greater than 1.0 are valid (and can easily be generated by curves such as [Curves.elasticInOut]).

Values for `t` are usually obtained from an [Animation<double>], such as an [AnimationController].

Instead of calling this directly, use [Decoration.lerp].

### lerpTo()

```dart
Decoration? lerpTo(Decoration? b, double t)
```

Linearly interpolates from `this` to another [Decoration] (which may be of a different class).

This is called if `b`'s [lerpFrom] did not know how to handle this class.

When implementing this method in subclasses, return null if this class cannot interpolate from `b`. In that case, [lerp] will apply a default behavior instead. Classes should implement both [lerpFrom] and [lerpTo].

Supporting interpolating to null is recommended as the [Decoration.lerp] method uses this as a fallback when two classes can't interpolate between each other.

The `t` argument represents position on the timeline, with 0.0 meaning that the interpolation has not started, returning `this` (or something equivalent to `this`), 1.0 meaning that the interpolation has finished, returning `b` (or something equivalent to `b`), and values in between meaning that the interpolation is at the relevant point on the timeline between `this` and `b`. The interpolation can be extrapolated beyond 0.0 and 1.0, so negative values and values greater than 1.0 are valid (and can easily be generated by curves such as [Curves.elasticInOut]).

Values for `t` are usually obtained from an [Animation<double>], such as an [AnimationController].

Instead of calling this directly, use [Decoration.lerp].

### lerp()

```dart
Decoration? lerp(Decoration? a, Decoration? b, double t)
```

Linearly interpolates between two [Decoration]s.

This attempts to use [lerpFrom] and [lerpTo] on `b` and `a` respectively to find a solution. If the two values can't directly be interpolated, then the interpolation is done via null (at `t == 0.5`).

{@macro dart.ui.shadow.lerp}

### hitTest()

```dart
bool hitTest(Size size, Offset position, {TextDirection? textDirection})
```

Tests whether the given point, on a rectangle of a given size, would be considered to hit the decoration or not. For example, if the decoration only draws a circle, this function might return true if the point was inside the circle and false otherwise.

The decoration may be sensitive to the [TextDirection]. The `textDirection` argument should therefore be provided. If it is known that the decoration is not affected by the text direction, then the argument may be omitted or set to null.

When a [Decoration] is painted in a [Container] or [DecoratedBox] (which is what [Container] uses), the `textDirection` parameter will be populated based on the ambient [Directionality] (by way of the [RenderDecoratedBox] renderer).

### createBoxPainter()

```dart
BoxPainter createBoxPainter([VoidCallback onChanged])
```

Returns a [BoxPainter] that will paint this decoration.

The `onChanged` argument configures [BoxPainter.onChanged]. It can be omitted if there is no chance that the painter will change (for example, if it is a [BoxDecoration] with definitely no [DecorationImage]).

### getClipPath()

```dart
Path getClipPath(Rect rect, TextDirection textDirection)
```

Returns a closed [Path] that describes the outer edge of this decoration.

The default implementation throws. Subclasses must override this implementation to describe the clip path that should be applied to the decoration when it is used in a [Container] with an explicit [Clip] behavior.

See also:

- [Container.clipBehavior], which, if set, uses this method to determine the clip path to use.

# BoxPainter

```dart
abstract class BoxPainter {}
```

A stateful class that can paint a particular [Decoration].

[BoxPainter] objects can cache resources so that they can be used multiple times.

Some resources used by [BoxPainter] may load asynchronously. When this happens, the [onChanged] callback will be invoked. To stop this callback from being called after the painter has been discarded, call [dispose].

### BoxPainter()

```dart
BoxPainter([VoidCallback? onChanged])
```

Abstract const constructor. This constructor enables subclasses to provide const constructors so that they can be used in const expressions.

### paint()

```dart
void paint(Canvas canvas, Offset offset, ImageConfiguration configuration)
```

Paints the [Decoration] for which this object was created on the given canvas using the given configuration.

The [ImageConfiguration] object passed as the third argument must, at a minimum, have a non-null [Size].

If this object caches resources for painting (e.g. [Paint] objects), the cache may be flushed when [paint] is called with a new configuration. For this reason, it may be more efficient to call [Decoration.createBoxPainter] for each different rectangle that is being painted in a particular frame.

For example, if a decoration's owner wants to paint a particular decoration once for its whole size, and once just in the bottom right, it might get two [BoxPainter] instances, one for each. However, when its size changes, it could continue using those same instances, since the previous resources would no longer be relevant and thus losing them would not be an issue.

Implementations should paint their decorations on the canvas in a rectangle whose top left corner is at the given `offset` and whose size is given by `configuration.size`.

When a [Decoration] is painted in a [Container] or [DecoratedBox] (which is what [Container] uses), the [ImageConfiguration.textDirection] property will be populated based on the ambient [Directionality].

### onChanged

```dart
VoidCallback? onChanged
```

Callback that is invoked if an asynchronously-loading resource used by the decoration finishes loading. For example, an image. When this is invoked, the [paint] method should be called again.

Resources might not start to load until after [paint] has been called, because they might depend on the configuration.

### dispose()

```dart
void dispose()
```

Discard any resources being held by the object.

The [onChanged] callback will not be invoked after this method has been called.
