@docImport 'package:flutter/cupertino.dart'; @docImport 'package:flutter/material.dart'; @docImport 'package:flutter_test/flutter_test.dart';

# KeyboardLockMode

```dart
enum KeyboardLockMode {}
```

Represents a lock mode of a keyboard, such as [KeyboardLockMode.capsLock].

A lock mode locks some of a keyboard's keys into a distinct mode of operation, depending on the lock settings selected. The status of the mode is toggled with each key down of its corresponding logical key. A [KeyboardLockMode] object is used to query whether this mode is enabled on the keyboard.

Only a limited number of modes are supported, which are enumerated as static members of this class. Manual constructing of this class is prohibited.

Represents the number lock mode on the keyboard.

On supporting systems, enabling number lock mode usually allows key presses of the number pad to input numbers, instead of acting as up, down, left, right, page up, end, etc.

Represents the scrolling lock mode on the keyboard.

On supporting systems and applications (such as a spreadsheet), enabling scrolling lock mode usually allows key presses of the cursor keys to scroll the document instead of the cursor.

Represents the capital letters lock mode on the keyboard.

On supporting systems, enabling capital lock mode allows key presses of the letter keys to input uppercase letters instead of lowercase.

### logicalKey

```dart
LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey
```

The logical key that triggers this lock mode.

### findLockByLogicalKey()

```dart
KeyboardLockMode? findLockByLogicalKey(LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey)
```

Returns the [KeyboardLockMode] constant from the logical key, or null, if not found.

# KeyEvent

```dart
abstract class KeyEvent with Diagnosticable {}
```

Defines the interface for keyboard key events.

The [KeyEvent] provides a universal model for key event information from a hardware keyboard across platforms.

See also:

- [HardwareKeyboard] for full introduction to key event model and handling.
- [KeyDownEvent], a subclass for events representing the user pressing a key.
- [KeyRepeatEvent], a subclass for events representing the user holding a key, causing repeated events.
- [KeyUpEvent], a subclass for events representing the user releasing a key.

### KeyEvent()

```dart
KeyEvent({required PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey, required LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey, String? character, required Duration timeStamp, ui.KeyEventDeviceType deviceType = ui.KeyEventDeviceType.keyboard, bool synthesized = false})
```

Create a const KeyEvent by providing each field.

### physicalKey

```dart
PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey
```

Returns an object representing the physical location of this key.

A [PhysicalKeyboardKey] represents a USB HID code sent from the keyboard, ignoring the key map, modifier keys (like SHIFT), and the label on the key.

[PhysicalKeyboardKey]s are used to describe and test for keys in a particular location. A [PhysicalKeyboardKey] may have a name, but the name is a mnemonic ("keyA" is easier to remember than 0x70004), derived from the key's effect on a QWERTY keyboard. The name does not represent the key's effect whatsoever (a physical "keyA" can be the Q key on an AZERTY keyboard).

For instance, if you wanted to make a game where the key to the right of the CAPS LOCK key made the player move left, you would be comparing a physical key with [PhysicalKeyboardKey.keyA], since that is the key next to the CAPS LOCK key on a QWERTY keyboard. This would return the same thing even on an AZERTY keyboard where the key next to the CAPS LOCK produces a "Q" when pressed.

If you want to make your app respond to a key with a particular character on it regardless of location of the key, use [KeyEvent.logicalKey] instead.

Also, even though physical keys are defined with USB HID codes, their values are not necessarily the same HID codes produced by the hardware and presented to the driver. On most platforms, Flutter has to map the platform representation back to a HID code because the original HID code is not provided. USB HID was chosen because it is a well-defined standard for referring to keys such as those a Flutter app may encounter.

See also:

- [logicalKey] for the non-location specific key generated by this event.
- [character] for the character generated by this keypress (if any).

### logicalKey

```dart
LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey
```

Returns an object representing the logical key that was pressed.

{@template flutter.services.KeyEvent.logicalKey} This method takes into account the key map and modifier keys (like SHIFT) to determine which logical key to return.

If you are looking for the character produced by a key event, use [KeyEvent.character] instead.

If you are collecting text strings, use the [TextField] or [CupertinoTextField] widgets, since those automatically handle many of the complexities of managing keyboard input, like showing a soft keyboard or interacting with an input method editor (IME). {@endtemplate}

### character

```dart
String? character
```

Returns the Unicode character (grapheme cluster) completed by this keystroke, if any.

This will only return a character if this keystroke, combined with any preceding keystroke(s), generates a character, and only on a "key down" event. It will return null if no character has been generated by the keystroke (e.g. a "dead" or "combining" key), or if the corresponding key is a key without a visual representation, such as a modifier key or a control key. It will also return null if this is a "key up" event.

This can return multiple Unicode code points, since some characters (more accurately referred to as grapheme clusters) are made up of more than one code point.

The [character] doesn't take into account edits by an input method editor (IME), or manage the visibility of the soft keyboard on touch devices. For composing text, use the [TextField] or [CupertinoTextField] widgets, since those automatically handle many of the complexities of managing keyboard input.

The [character] is not available on [KeyUpEvent]s.

### timeStamp

```dart
Duration timeStamp
```

Time of event, relative to an arbitrary start point.

All events share the same timeStamp origin.

### deviceType

```dart
ui.KeyEventDeviceType deviceType
```

The source device type for the key event.

Not all platforms supply an accurate type.

Defaults to [ui.KeyEventDeviceType.keyboard].

### synthesized

```dart
bool synthesized
```

Whether this event is synthesized by Flutter to synchronize key states.

An non-[synthesized] event is converted from a native event, and a native event can only be converted to one non-[synthesized] event. Some properties might be changed during the conversion (for example, a native repeat event might be converted to a Flutter down event when necessary.)

A [synthesized] event is created without a source native event in order to synchronize key states. For example, if the native platform shows that a shift key that was previously held has been released somehow without the key up event dispatched (probably due to loss of focus), a synthesized key up event will be added to regularized the event stream.

For detailed introduction to the regularized event model, see [HardwareKeyboard].

Defaults to false.

### debugFillProperties()

```dart
void debugFillProperties(DiagnosticPropertiesBuilder properties)
```

# KeyDownEvent

```dart
class KeyDownEvent extends KeyEvent {}
```

An event indicating that the user has pressed a key down on the keyboard.

See also:

- [KeyRepeatEvent], a key event representing the user holding a key, causing repeated events.
- [KeyUpEvent], a key event representing the user releasing a key.
- [HardwareKeyboard], which produces this event.

### KeyDownEvent()

```dart
KeyDownEvent({required PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey, required LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey, String? character, required Duration timeStamp, bool synthesized, dynamic deviceType})
```

Creates a key event that represents the user pressing a key.

# KeyUpEvent

```dart
class KeyUpEvent extends KeyEvent {}
```

An event indicating that the user has released a key on the keyboard.

See also:

- [KeyDownEvent], a key event representing the user pressing a key.
- [KeyRepeatEvent], a key event representing the user holding a key, causing repeated events.
- [HardwareKeyboard], which produces this event.

### KeyUpEvent()

```dart
KeyUpEvent({required PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey, required LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey, required Duration timeStamp, bool synthesized, dynamic deviceType})
```

Creates a key event that represents the user pressing a key.

# KeyRepeatEvent

```dart
class KeyRepeatEvent extends KeyEvent {}
```

An event indicating that the user has been holding a key on the keyboard and causing repeated events.

Repeat events are not guaranteed and are provided only if supported by the underlying platform.

See also:

- [KeyDownEvent], a key event representing the user pressing a key.
- [KeyUpEvent], a key event representing the user releasing a key.
- [HardwareKeyboard], which produces this event.

### KeyRepeatEvent()

```dart
KeyRepeatEvent({required PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey, required LogicalKeyboardKey logicalKey, String? character, required Duration timeStamp, dynamic deviceType})
```

Creates a key event that represents the user pressing a key.

# KeyEventCallback

```dart
typedef KeyEventCallback = bool Function(KeyEvent event)
```

The signature for [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler], a callback to decide whether the entire framework handles a key event.

# HardwareKeyboard

```dart
class HardwareKeyboard {}
```

Manages key events from hardware keyboards.

[HardwareKeyboard] manages all key events of the Flutter application from hardware keyboards (in contrast to on-screen keyboards). It receives key data from the native platform, dispatches key events to registered handlers, and records the keyboard state.

To stay notified whenever keys are pressed, held, or released, add a handler with [addHandler]. To only be notified when a specific part of the app is focused, use a [Focus] widget's `onFocusChanged` attribute instead of [addHandler]. Handlers should be removed with [removeHandler] when notification is no longer necessary, or when the handler is being disposed.

To query whether a key is being held, or a lock mode is enabled, use [physicalKeysPressed], [logicalKeysPressed], or [lockModesEnabled]. These states will have been updated with the event when used during a key event handler.

The singleton [HardwareKeyboard] instance is held by the [ServicesBinding] as [ServicesBinding.keyboard], and can be conveniently accessed using the [HardwareKeyboard.instance] static accessor.

## Event model

Flutter uses a universal event model ([KeyEvent]) and key options ([LogicalKeyboardKey] and [PhysicalKeyboardKey]) regardless of the native platform, while preserving platform-specific features as much as possible.

[HardwareKeyboard] guarantees that the key model is "regularized": The key event stream consists of "key tap sequences", where a key tap sequence is defined as one [KeyDownEvent], zero or more [KeyRepeatEvent]s, and one [KeyUpEvent] in order, all with the same physical key and logical key.

Example:

- Tap and hold key A, US layout: * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "a") * KeyRepeatEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "a") * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA)
- Press ShiftLeft, tap key A, then release ShiftLeft, US layout: * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: shiftLeft, logicalKey: shiftLeft) * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "A") * KeyRepeatEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "A") * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA) * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: shiftLeft, logicalKey: shiftLeft)
- Tap key Q, French layout: * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyQ, character: "q") * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyQ)
- Tap CapsLock: * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: capsLock, logicalKey: capsLock) * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: capsLock, logicalKey: capsLock)

When the Flutter application starts, all keys are released, and all lock modes are disabled. Upon key events, [HardwareKeyboard] will update its states, then dispatch callbacks: [KeyDownEvent]s and [KeyUpEvent]s set or reset the pressing state, while [KeyDownEvent]s also toggle lock modes.

Flutter will try to synchronize with the ground truth of keyboard states using synthesized events ([KeyEvent.synthesized]), subject to the availability of the platform. The desynchronization can be caused by non-empty initial state or a change in the focused window or application. For example, if CapsLock is enabled when the application starts, then immediately before the first key event, a synthesized [KeyDownEvent] and [KeyUpEvent] of CapsLock will be dispatched.

The resulting event stream does not map one-to-one to the native key event stream. Some native events might be skipped, while some events might be synthesized and do not correspond to native events. Synthesized events will be indicated by [KeyEvent.synthesized].

Example:

- Flutter starts with CapsLock on, the first press of keyA: * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: capsLock, logicalKey: capsLock, synthesized: true) * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: capsLock, logicalKey: capsLock, synthesized: true) * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "a")
- While holding ShiftLeft, lose window focus, release shiftLeft, then focus back and press keyA: * KeyUpEvent(physicalKey: shiftLeft, logicalKey: shiftLeft, synthesized: true) * KeyDownEvent(physicalKey: keyA, logicalKey: keyA, character: "a")

Flutter does not distinguish between multiple keyboards. Flutter will process all events as if they come from a single keyboard, and try to resolve any conflicts and provide a regularized key event stream, which can deviate from the ground truth.

See also:

- [KeyDownEvent], [KeyRepeatEvent], and [KeyUpEvent], the classes used to describe specific key events.
- [instance], the singleton instance of this class.

### instance

```dart
HardwareKeyboard get instance
```

Provides convenient access to the current [HardwareKeyboard] singleton from the [ServicesBinding] instance.

### physicalKeysPressed

```dart
Set<PhysicalKeyboardKey> get physicalKeysPressed
```

The set of [PhysicalKeyboardKey]s that are pressed.

If called from a key event handler, the result will already include the effect of the event.

See also:

- [logicalKeysPressed], which tells if a logical key is being pressed.

### logicalKeysPressed

```dart
Set<LogicalKeyboardKey> get logicalKeysPressed
```

The set of [LogicalKeyboardKey]s that are pressed.

If called from a key event handler, the result will already include the effect of the event.

See also:

- [physicalKeysPressed], which tells if a physical key is being pressed.

### lookUpLayout()

```dart
LogicalKeyboardKey? lookUpLayout(PhysicalKeyboardKey physicalKey)
```

Returns the logical key that corresponds to the given pressed physical key.

Returns null if the physical key is not currently pressed.

### lockModesEnabled

```dart
Set<KeyboardLockMode> get lockModesEnabled
```

The set of [KeyboardLockMode] that are enabled.

Lock keys, such as CapsLock, are logical keys that toggle their respective boolean states on key down events. Such flags are usually used as modifier to other keys or events.

If called from a key event handler, the result will already include the effect of the event.

### isLogicalKeyPressed()

```dart
bool isLogicalKeyPressed(LogicalKeyboardKey key)
```

Returns true if the given [LogicalKeyboardKey] is pressed, according to the [HardwareKeyboard].

### isPhysicalKeyPressed()

```dart
bool isPhysicalKeyPressed(PhysicalKeyboardKey key)
```

Returns true if the given [PhysicalKeyboardKey] is pressed, according to the [HardwareKeyboard].

### isControlPressed

```dart
bool get isControlPressed
```

Returns true if a logical CTRL modifier key is pressed, regardless of which side of the keyboard it is on.

Use [isLogicalKeyPressed] if you need to know which control key was pressed.

### isShiftPressed

```dart
bool get isShiftPressed
```

Returns true if a logical SHIFT modifier key is pressed, regardless of which side of the keyboard it is on.

Use [isLogicalKeyPressed] if you need to know which shift key was pressed.

### isAltPressed

```dart
bool get isAltPressed
```

Returns true if a logical ALT modifier key is pressed, regardless of which side of the keyboard it is on.

The `AltGr` key that appears on some keyboards is considered to be the same as [LogicalKeyboardKey.altRight] on some platforms (notably Android). On platforms that can distinguish between `altRight` and `altGr`, a press of `AltGr` will not return true here, and will need to be tested for separately.

Use [isLogicalKeyPressed] if you need to know which alt key was pressed.

### isMetaPressed

```dart
bool get isMetaPressed
```

Returns true if a logical META modifier key is pressed, regardless of which side of the keyboard it is on.

Use [isLogicalKeyPressed] if you need to know which meta key was pressed.

### addHandler()

```dart
void addHandler(KeyEventCallback handler)
```

Register a listener that is called every time a hardware key event occurs.

All registered handlers will be invoked in order regardless of their return value. The return value indicates whether Flutter "handles" the event. If any handler returns true, the event will not be propagated to other native components in the add-to-app scenario.

If an object added a handler, it must remove the handler before it is disposed.

If used during event dispatching, the addition will not take effect until after the dispatching.

See also:

- [removeHandler], which removes the handler.

### removeHandler()

```dart
void removeHandler(KeyEventCallback handler)
```

Stop calling the given listener every time a hardware key event occurs.

The `handler` argument must be [identical] to the one used in [addHandler]. If multiple exist, the first one will be removed. If none is found, then this method is a no-op.

If used during event dispatching, the removal will not take effect until after the event has been dispatched.

### syncKeyboardState()

```dart
Future<void> syncKeyboardState()
```

Query the engine and update _pressedKeys accordingly to the engine answer.

Both the framework and the engine maintain a state of the current pressed keys. There are edge cases, related to startup and restart, where the framework needs to resynchronize its keyboard state.

### handleKeyEvent()

```dart
bool handleKeyEvent(KeyEvent event)
```

Process a new [KeyEvent] by recording the state changes and dispatching to handlers.

Returns true if any handler handled the event.

### clearState()

```dart
void clearState()
```

Clear all keyboard states and additional handlers.

All handlers are removed except for the first one, which is added by [ServicesBinding].

This is used by the testing framework to make sure that tests are hermetic.

# KeyDataTransitMode

```dart
enum KeyDataTransitMode {}
```

The mode in which information of key messages is delivered.

This enum is deprecated and will be removed. There is no direct substitute planned, since this enum will no longer be necessary once [RawKeyEvent] and associated APIs are removed.

Different platforms use different methods, classes, and models to inform the framework of native key events, which is called "transit mode".

The framework must determine which transit mode the current platform implements and behave accordingly (such as transforming and synthesizing events if necessary). Unit tests related to keyboard might also want to simulate platform of each transit mode.

The transit mode of the current platform is inferred by [KeyEventManager] at the start of the application.

See also:

- [KeyEventManager], which infers the transit mode of the current platform and guides how key messages are dispatched.
- [debugKeyEventSimulatorTransitModeOverride], overrides the transit mode used to simulate key events.
- [KeySimulatorTransitModeVariant], an easier way to set [debugKeyEventSimulatorTransitModeOverride] in widget tests.

Key event information is delivered as raw key data.

Raw key data is platform's native key event information sent in JSON through a method channel, which is then interpreted as a platform subclass of [RawKeyEventData].

If the current transit mode is [rawKeyData], the raw key data is converted to both [KeyMessage.events] and [KeyMessage.rawEvent].

Key event information is delivered as converted key data, followed by raw key data.

Key data ([ui.KeyData]) is a standardized event stream converted from platform's native key event information, sent through the embedder API. Its event model is described in [HardwareKeyboard].

Raw key data is platform's native key event information sent in JSON through a method channel. It is interpreted by subclasses of [RawKeyEventData].

If the current transit mode is [keyDataThenRawKeyData], then the [KeyEventManager] will use the [ui.KeyData] for [KeyMessage.events], and the raw data for [KeyMessage.rawEvent].

# KeyMessage

```dart
class KeyMessage {}
```

The assembled information converted from a native key message.

This class is deprecated, and will be removed. There is no direct substitute planned, since this class will no longer be necessary once [RawKeyEvent] and associated APIs are removed.

Native key messages, produced by physically pressing or releasing keyboard keys, are translated into two different event streams in Flutter:

- The [KeyEvent] stream, represented by [KeyMessage.events] (recommended).
- The [RawKeyEvent] stream, represented by [KeyMessage.rawEvent] (legacy, to be deprecated).

Either the [KeyEvent] stream or the [RawKeyEvent] stream alone provides a complete description of the keyboard messages, but in different event models. Flutter is still transitioning from the legacy model to the new model, therefore it dispatches both streams simultaneously until the transition is completed. [KeyMessage] is used to bundle the stream segments of both models from a native key message together for the convenience of propagation.

Typically, an application either processes [KeyMessage.events] or [KeyMessage.rawEvent], not both. For example, handling a [KeyMessage], means handling each event in [KeyMessage.events].

In advanced cases, a widget needs to process both streams at the same time. For example, [FocusNode] has an `onKey` that dispatches [RawKeyEvent]s and an `onKeyEvent` that dispatches [KeyEvent]s. To processes a [KeyMessage], it first calls `onKeyEvent` with each [KeyEvent] of [events], and then `onKey` with [rawEvent]. All callbacks are invoked regardless of their [KeyEventResult]. Their results are combined into the result of the node using [combineKeyEventResults].

```dart
// ignore: deprecated_member_use
void handleMessage(FocusNode node, KeyMessage message) {
  final List<KeyEventResult> results = <KeyEventResult>[];
  if (node.onKeyEvent != null) {
    for (final KeyEvent event in message.events) {
      results.add(node.onKeyEvent!(node, event));
    }
  }
  // ignore: deprecated_member_use
  if (node.onKey != null && message.rawEvent != null) {
    // ignore: deprecated_member_use
    results.add(node.onKey!(node, message.rawEvent!));
  }
  final KeyEventResult result = combineKeyEventResults(results);
  // Progress based on `result`...
}
```

### KeyMessage()

```dart
KeyMessage(List<KeyEvent> events, RawKeyEvent? rawEvent)
```

Create a [KeyMessage] by providing all information.

The [events] might be empty.

### events

```dart
List<KeyEvent> events
```

The list of [KeyEvent]s converted from the native key message.

A native key message is converted into multiple [KeyEvent]s in a regular event model. The [events] might contain zero or any number of [KeyEvent]s.

See also:

- [HardwareKeyboard], which describes the regular event model.
- [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler], [KeyboardListener], [Focus.onKeyEvent], where [KeyEvent]s are commonly used.

### rawEvent

```dart
RawKeyEvent? rawEvent
```

The native key message in the form of a raw key event.

A native key message is sent to the framework in JSON and represented in a platform-specific form as [RawKeyEventData] and a platform-neutral form as [RawKeyEvent]. Their stream is not as regular as [KeyEvent]'s, but keeps as much native information and structure as possible.

The [rawEvent] field might be empty, for example, when the event converting system dispatches solitary synthesized events.

The [rawEvent] field will be deprecated in the future.

See also:

- [RawKeyboard.addListener], [RawKeyboardListener], [Focus.onKey], where [RawKeyEvent]s are commonly used.

### toString()

```dart
String toString()
```

# KeyMessageHandler

```dart
typedef KeyMessageHandler = bool Function(KeyMessage message)
```

The signature for [KeyEventManager.keyMessageHandler].

A [KeyMessageHandler] processes a [KeyMessage] and returns whether the message is considered handled. Handled messages should not be propagated to other native components.

This message handler signature is deprecated, and will be removed. There is no direct substitute planned, since this handler type will no longer be necessary once [RawKeyEvent] and associated APIs are removed.

# KeyEventManager

```dart
class KeyEventManager {}
```

A singleton class that processes key messages from the platform and dispatches converted messages accordingly.

This class is deprecated, and will be removed. There is no direct substitute planned, since this class will no longer be necessary once [RawKeyEvent] and associated APIs are removed.

[KeyEventManager] receives platform key messages by [handleKeyData] and [handleRawKeyMessage], sends converted events to [HardwareKeyboard] and [RawKeyboard] for recording keeping, and then dispatches the [KeyMessage] to [keyMessageHandler], the global message handler.

[KeyEventManager] is typically created, owned, and invoked by [ServicesBinding].

## On embedder implementation

Currently, Flutter has two sets of key event API pathways running in parallel.

- The "hardware key event" pathway receives messages from the "flutter/keydata" message channel (embedder API `FlutterEngineSendKeyEvent`) and dispatches [KeyEvent] to [HardwareKeyboard] and some methods such as [Focus.onKeyEvent].
- The deprecated "raw key event" pathway receives messages from the "flutter/keyevent" message channel ([SystemChannels.keyEvent]) and dispatches [RawKeyEvent] to [RawKeyboard] and [Focus.onKey] as well as similar methods. This pathway will be removed at a future date.

[KeyEventManager] resolves cross-platform compatibility of keyboard implementations, since legacy platforms might have not implemented the new key data API and only send raw key data on each key message. [KeyEventManager] recognizes the platform support by detecting whether a message comes from platform channel "flutter/keyevent" before one from "flutter/keydata", or vice versa, at the beginning of the app.

- If a "flutter/keydata" message is received first, then this platform is considered a modern platform. The hardware key events are stored, and dispatched only when a raw key message is received.
- If a "flutter/keyevent" message is received first, then this platform is considered a legacy platform. The raw key event is transformed into a hardware key event at best effort. No messages from "flutter/keydata" are expected. This behavior has been deprecated, and will be removed at a future date.

Therefore, to correctly implement a platform that supports `FlutterEngineSendKeyEvent`, the platform must ensure that `FlutterEngineSendKeyEvent` is called before sending a message to "flutter/keyevent" at the beginning of the app, and every physical key event is ended with a "flutter/keyevent" message.

### KeyEventManager()

```dart
KeyEventManager(HardwareKeyboard _hardwareKeyboard, RawKeyboard _rawKeyboard)
```

Create an instance.

This is typically only called by [ServicesBinding].

### keyMessageHandler

```dart
KeyMessageHandler? keyMessageHandler
```

The global entrance which handles all key events sent to Flutter.

This handler is deprecated and will be removed. Use [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler]/[HardwareKeyboard.removeHandler] instead.

Typical applications use [WidgetsBinding], where this field is set by the focus system (see `FocusManager`) on startup to a function that dispatches incoming events to the focus system, including `FocusNode.onKey`, `FocusNode.onKeyEvent`, and `Shortcuts`. In this case, the application does not need to read, assign, or invoke this value.

For advanced uses, the application can "patch" this callback. See below for details.

## Handlers and event results

Roughly speaking, Flutter processes each native key event with the following phases:

1.  Platform-side pre-filtering, sometimes used for IME.
2.  The key event system.
3.  The text input system.
4.  Other native components (possibly non-Flutter).

Each phase will conclude with a boolean called an "event result". If the result is true, this phase _handles_ the event and prevents the event from being propagated to the next phase. This mechanism allows shortcuts such as "Ctrl-C" to not generate a text "C" in the text field, or shortcuts that are not handled by any components to trigger special alerts (such as the "bonk" noise on macOS).

In the second phase, known as "the key event system", the event is dispatched to several destinations: [RawKeyboard]'s listeners, [HardwareKeyboard]'s handlers, and [keyMessageHandler]. All destinations will always receive the event regardless of the handlers' results. If any handler's result is true, then the overall result of the second phase is true, and event propagation is stopped.

See also:

- [RawKeyboard.addListener], which adds a raw keyboard listener.
- [RawKeyboardListener], which is also implemented by adding a raw keyboard listener.
- [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler], which adds a hardware keyboard handler.

## Advanced usages: Manual assignment or patching

If you are not using the focus system to manage focus, set this attribute to a [KeyMessageHandler] that returns true if the propagation on the platform should not be continued. If this field is null, key events will be assumed to not have been handled by Flutter, a result of "false".

Even if you are using the focus system, you might also want to do more than the focus system allows. In these cases, you can _patch_ [keyMessageHandler] by setting it to a callback that performs your tasks and calls the original callback in between (or not at all.)

Patching [keyMessageHandler] can not be reverted. You should always assume that another component might have patched it before you and after you. This means that you might want to write your own global notification manager, to which callbacks can be added and removed.

You should not patch [keyMessageHandler] until the `FocusManager` has assigned its callback. This is assured during any time within the widget lifecycle (such as `initState`), or after calling `WidgetManager.instance`.

{@tool dartpad} This example shows how to process key events that are not handled by any focus handler (such as `Shortcuts`) by patching [keyMessageHandler].

The app prints out any key events that are not handled by the app body. Try typing something in the first text field. These key presses are not handled by `Shortcuts` and will be sent to the fallback handler and printed out. Now try some text shortcuts, such as Ctrl+A. The KeyA press is handled as a shortcut, and is not sent to the fallback handler and so is not printed out.

The key widget is `FallbackKeyEventRegistrar`, a necessity class to allow reversible patching. `FallbackFocus` and `FallbackFocusNode` are also useful to recognize the widget tree's structure. `FallbackDemo` is an example of using them in an app.

** See code in examples/api/lib/widgets/hardware_keyboard/key_event_manager.0.dart ** {@end-tool}

See also:

- [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler], which accepts multiple global handlers to process [KeyEvent]s

### handleKeyData()

```dart
bool handleKeyData(ui.KeyData data)
```

Dispatch a key data to global and leaf listeners.

This method is the handler to the global `onKeyData` API.

This handler is deprecated, and will be removed. Use [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler] instead.

### handleRawKeyMessage()

```dart
Future<Map<String, dynamic>> handleRawKeyMessage(dynamic message)
```

Handles a raw key message.

This method is the handler to [SystemChannels.keyEvent], processing the JSON form of the native key message and returns the responds for the channel.

This handler is deprecated, and will be removed. Use [HardwareKeyboard.addHandler] instead.

### clearState()

```dart
void clearState()
```

Reset the inferred platform transit mode and related states.

This method is only used in unit tests. In release mode, this is a no-op.
