@docImport 'hardware_keyboard.dart';

# runeToLowerCase()

```dart
int runeToLowerCase(int rune)
```

Convert a UTF32 rune to its lower case.

# RawKeyEventDataMacOs

```dart
class RawKeyEventDataMacOs extends RawKeyEventData {}
```

Platform-specific key event data for macOS.

This class is deprecated and will be removed. Platform specific key event data will no longer be available. See [KeyEvent] for what is available.

This object contains information about key events obtained from macOS's `NSEvent` interface.

See also:

- [RawKeyboard], which uses this interface to expose key data.

### RawKeyEventDataMacOs()

```dart
RawKeyEventDataMacOs({String characters = '', String charactersIgnoringModifiers = '', int keyCode = 0, int modifiers = 0, int? specifiedLogicalKey})
```

Creates a key event data structure specific for macOS.

### characters

```dart
String characters
```

The Unicode characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

See also:

- [Apple's NSEvent documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/1534183-characters?language=objc)

### charactersIgnoringModifiers

```dart
String charactersIgnoringModifiers
```

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

See also:

- [Apple's NSEvent documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/1524605-charactersignoringmodifiers?language=objc)

### keyCode

```dart
int keyCode
```

The virtual key code for the keyboard key associated with a key event.

See also:

- [Apple's NSEvent documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/1534513-keycode?language=objc)

### modifiers

```dart
int modifiers
```

A mask of the current modifiers using the values in Modifier Flags.

See also:

- [Apple's NSEvent documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appkit/nsevent/1535211-modifierflags?language=objc)

### specifiedLogicalKey

```dart
int? specifiedLogicalKey
```

A logical key specified by the embedding that should be used instead of deriving from raw data.

The macOS embedding detects the keyboard layout and maps some keys to logical keys in a way that can not be derived from per-key information.

This is not part of the native macOS key event.

### keyLabel

```dart
String get keyLabel
```

### physicalKey

```dart
PhysicalKeyboardKey get physicalKey
```

### logicalKey

```dart
LogicalKeyboardKey get logicalKey
```

### isModifierPressed()

```dart
bool isModifierPressed(ModifierKey key, {KeyboardSide side = KeyboardSide.any})
```

### getModifierSide()

```dart
KeyboardSide? getModifierSide(ModifierKey key)
```

### shouldDispatchEvent()

```dart
bool shouldDispatchEvent()
```

### debugFillProperties()

```dart
void debugFillProperties(DiagnosticPropertiesBuilder properties)
```

### operator ==()

```dart
bool operator ==(Object other)
```

### hashCode

```dart
int get hashCode
```

### modifierCapsLock

```dart
int modifierCapsLock
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the CAPS LOCK modifier key is on.

{@template flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock} Use this value if you need to decode the [modifiers] field yourself, but it's much easier to use [isModifierPressed] if you just want to know if a modifier is pressed. {@endtemplate}

### modifierShift

```dart
int modifierShift
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether one of the SHIFT modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierLeftShift

```dart
int modifierLeftShift
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the left SHIFT modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierRightShift

```dart
int modifierRightShift
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the right SHIFT modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierControl

```dart
int modifierControl
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether one of the CTRL modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierLeftControl

```dart
int modifierLeftControl
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the left CTRL modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierRightControl

```dart
int modifierRightControl
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the right CTRL modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierOption

```dart
int modifierOption
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether one of the ALT modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierLeftOption

```dart
int modifierLeftOption
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the left ALT modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierRightOption

```dart
int modifierRightOption
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the right ALT modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierCommand

```dart
int modifierCommand
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether one of the CMD modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierLeftCommand

```dart
int modifierLeftCommand
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the left CMD modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierRightCommand

```dart
int modifierRightCommand
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the right CMD modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierNumericPad

```dart
int modifierNumericPad
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether any key in the numeric keypad is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierHelp

```dart
int modifierHelp
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether the HELP modifier key is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### modifierFunction

```dart
int modifierFunction
```

This mask is used to check the [modifiers] field to test whether one of the FUNCTION modifier keys is pressed.

{@macro flutter.services.RawKeyEventDataMacOs.modifierCapsLock}

### deviceIndependentMask

```dart
int deviceIndependentMask
```

Used to retrieve only the device-independent modifier flags, allowing applications to mask off the device-dependent modifier flags, including event coalescing information.
