@docImport 'package:flutter/material.dart';

@docImport 'nested_scroll_view.dart'; @docImport 'scroll_configuration.dart'; @docImport 'scroll_view.dart'; @docImport 'scrollable.dart';

# GlowingOverscrollIndicator

```dart
class GlowingOverscrollIndicator extends StatefulWidget {}
```

A visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

A [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] listens for [ScrollNotification]s in order to control the overscroll indication. These notifications are typically generated by a [ScrollView], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

[GlowingOverscrollIndicator] generates [OverscrollIndicatorNotification] before showing an overscroll indication. To prevent the indicator from showing the indication, call [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.disallowIndicator] on the notification.

Created automatically by [ScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] on platforms (e.g., Android) that commonly use this type of overscroll indication.

In a [MaterialApp], the edge glow color is the overall theme's [ColorScheme.secondary] color.

## Customizing the Glow Position for Advanced Scroll Views

When building a [CustomScrollView] with a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator], the indicator will apply to the entire scrollable area, regardless of what slivers the CustomScrollView contains.

For example, if your CustomScrollView contains a SliverAppBar in the first position, the GlowingOverscrollIndicator will overlay the SliverAppBar. To manipulate the position of the GlowingOverscrollIndicator in this case, you can either make use of a [NotificationListener] and provide a [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.paintOffset] to the notification, or use a [NestedScrollView].

{@tool dartpad} This example demonstrates how to use a [NotificationListener] to manipulate the placement of a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] when building a [CustomScrollView]. Drag the scrollable to see the bounds of the overscroll indicator.

** See code in examples/api/lib/widgets/overscroll_indicator/glowing_overscroll_indicator.0.dart ** {@end-tool}

{@tool dartpad} This example demonstrates how to use a [NestedScrollView] to manipulate the placement of a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] when building a [CustomScrollView]. Drag the scrollable to see the bounds of the overscroll indicator.

** See code in examples/api/lib/widgets/overscroll_indicator/glowing_overscroll_indicator.1.dart ** {@end-tool}

See also:

- [OverscrollIndicatorNotification], which can be used to manipulate the glow position or prevent the glow from being painted at all.
- [NotificationListener], to listen for the [OverscrollIndicatorNotification].
- [StretchingOverscrollIndicator], a Material Design overscroll indicator.

### GlowingOverscrollIndicator()

```dart
GlowingOverscrollIndicator({dynamic key, bool showLeading = true, bool showTrailing = true, required AxisDirection axisDirection, required Color color, ScrollNotificationPredicate notificationPredicate = defaultScrollNotificationPredicate, Widget? child})
```

Creates a visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

In order for this widget to display an overscroll indication, the [child] widget must contain a widget that generates a [ScrollNotification], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

### showLeading

```dart
bool showLeading
```

Whether to show the overscroll glow on the side with negative scroll offsets.

For a vertical downwards viewport, this is the top side.

Defaults to true.

See [showTrailing] for the corresponding control on the other side of the viewport.

### showTrailing

```dart
bool showTrailing
```

Whether to show the overscroll glow on the side with positive scroll offsets.

For a vertical downwards viewport, this is the bottom side.

Defaults to true.

See [showLeading] for the corresponding control on the other side of the viewport.

### axisDirection

```dart
AxisDirection axisDirection
```

{@template flutter.overscroll.axisDirection} The direction of positive scroll offsets in the [Scrollable] whose overscrolls are to be visualized. {@endtemplate}

### axis

```dart
Axis get axis
```

{@template flutter.overscroll.axis} The axis along which scrolling occurs in the [Scrollable] whose overscrolls are to be visualized. {@endtemplate}

### color

```dart
Color color
```

The color of the glow. The alpha channel is ignored.

### notificationPredicate

```dart
ScrollNotificationPredicate notificationPredicate
```

{@template flutter.overscroll.notificationPredicate} A check that specifies whether a [ScrollNotification] should be handled by this widget.

By default, checks whether `notification.depth == 0`. Set it to something else for more complicated layouts, such as nested [ScrollView]s. {@endtemplate}

### child

```dart
Widget? child
```

The widget below this widget in the tree.

The overscroll indicator will paint on top of this child. This child (and its subtree) should include a source of [ScrollNotification] notifications.

Typically a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] is created by a [ScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] method, in which case the child is usually the one provided as an argument to that method.

### createState()

```dart
State<GlowingOverscrollIndicator> createState()
```

### debugFillProperties()

```dart
void debugFillProperties(DiagnosticPropertiesBuilder properties)
```

# StretchingOverscrollIndicator

```dart
class StretchingOverscrollIndicator extends StatefulWidget {}
```

A Material Design visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled.

A [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] listens for [ScrollNotification]s in order to stretch the content of the [Scrollable]. These notifications are typically generated by a [ScrollView], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

When triggered, the [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] generates an [OverscrollIndicatorNotification] before showing an overscroll indication. To prevent the indicator from showing the indication, call [OverscrollIndicatorNotification.disallowIndicator] on the notification.

Created by [MaterialScrollBehavior.buildOverscrollIndicator] on platforms (e.g., Android) that commonly use this type of overscroll indication when [ThemeData.useMaterial3] is true. Otherwise, when [ThemeData.useMaterial3] is false, a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] is used instead.

See also:

- [OverscrollIndicatorNotification], which can be used to prevent the stretch effect from being applied at all.
- [NotificationListener], to listen for the [OverscrollIndicatorNotification].
- [GlowingOverscrollIndicator], the default overscroll indicator for [TargetPlatform.android] and [TargetPlatform.fuchsia].

### StretchingOverscrollIndicator()

```dart
StretchingOverscrollIndicator({dynamic key, required AxisDirection axisDirection, ScrollNotificationPredicate notificationPredicate = defaultScrollNotificationPredicate, Clip clipBehavior = Clip.hardEdge, Widget? child})
```

Creates a visual indication that a scroll view has overscrolled by applying a stretch transformation to the content.

In order for this widget to display an overscroll indication, the [child] widget must contain a widget that generates a [ScrollNotification], such as a [ListView] or a [GridView].

### axisDirection

```dart
AxisDirection axisDirection
```

{@macro flutter.overscroll.axisDirection}

### axis

```dart
Axis get axis
```

{@macro flutter.overscroll.axis}

### notificationPredicate

```dart
ScrollNotificationPredicate notificationPredicate
```

{@macro flutter.overscroll.notificationPredicate}

### clipBehavior

```dart
Clip clipBehavior
```

{@macro flutter.material.Material.clipBehavior}

Defaults to [Clip.hardEdge].

### child

```dart
Widget? child
```

The widget below this widget in the tree.

The overscroll indicator will apply a stretch effect to this child. This child (and its subtree) should include a source of [ScrollNotification] notifications.

### createState()

```dart
State<StretchingOverscrollIndicator> createState()
```

### debugFillProperties()

```dart
void debugFillProperties(DiagnosticPropertiesBuilder properties)
```

# OverscrollIndicatorNotification

```dart
class OverscrollIndicatorNotification extends Notification with ViewportNotificationMixin {}
```

A notification that either a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] or a [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] will start showing an overscroll indication.

To prevent the indicator from showing the indication, call [disallowIndicator] on the notification.

See also:

- [GlowingOverscrollIndicator], which generates this type of notification by painting an indicator over the child content.
- [StretchingOverscrollIndicator], which generates this type of notification by applying a stretch transformation to the child content.

### OverscrollIndicatorNotification()

```dart
OverscrollIndicatorNotification({required bool leading})
```

Creates a notification that an [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] or a [StretchingOverscrollIndicator] will start showing an overscroll indication.

### leading

```dart
bool leading
```

Whether the indication will be shown on the leading edge of the scroll view.

### paintOffset

```dart
double paintOffset
```

Controls at which offset a [GlowingOverscrollIndicator] draws.

A positive offset will move the glow away from its edge, i.e. for a vertical, [leading] indicator, a [paintOffset] of 100.0 will draw the indicator 100.0 pixels from the top of the edge. For a vertical indicator with [leading] set to `false`, a [paintOffset] of 100.0 will draw the indicator 100.0 pixels from the bottom instead.

A negative [paintOffset] is generally not useful, since the glow will be clipped.

This has no effect on a [StretchingOverscrollIndicator].

### accepted

```dart
bool accepted
```

Whether the current overscroll event will allow for the indicator to be shown.

Calling [disallowIndicator] sets this to false, preventing the over scroll indicator from showing.

Defaults to true.

### disallowIndicator()

```dart
void disallowIndicator()
```

Call this method if the overscroll indicator should be prevented.

### debugFillDescription()

```dart
void debugFillDescription(List<String> description)
```
